Nepal, best known for the Himalayas and its cultural diversity, is an attractive destination for travel and tourism.

Moreover, visitors traveling to Nepal also include trying out various Nepali cuisine as a truly memorable and unique experience.

The unique food of Nepal reflects the wide variety of cultures and traditions of Nepali people. Nepali people use local herbs and spices to make the food highly nutritious, healthy, and flavorsome.

Dal Bhat Tarkari is the staple meal of Nepali people. Although rice with lentil soup and curry is the go to meal in South Asia – the taste of authentic Nepali ‘Dal Bhat’ is quite unique.

A plate of Dal Bhat Tarkari (Thali set) served in the restaurants consists of Bhat (steamed/boiled rice), Dal (lentil soup), Tarkari (mix of available seasonal vegetables), Dahi (yogurt), and curries made up of either chicken, goat or fish. Herbs such as coriander, turmeric, cumin, garlic, onion, ginger, tamarind, chili, and garam masala are used to cool dal bhat tarkari.

“Dal Bhat Power 24 Hour”, quite a popular quote among many tourists who visit Nepal every year. The dish gives you all the energy you will need to stay active whole day and, to go through the exciting trekking trails to reach your destination point throughout your day. It is the primary source of energy in homes of most of the Nepalese family which is packed with wholesomeness of nutrients and energy to sustain you whole day.

Normal Price: NPR 350 to NPR 500

Momo are steamed dumpling with variation of fillings inside. It is native to the Southwest Chinese region of Tibet, Nepal, Bhutan, and parts of India. The exact origins are still unclear, but the name ‘Momo’ points to Northern China.

The dough for momo is rolled into circular flat pieces, and the filling is enclosed either completely or in a half-moon shape. The fillings can be vegetables, chicken, pork, goat, paneer (fresh cheese) or buffalo meat. Buffalo Momos are the most popular amongst the Nepali people.

More importantly, the Momo sauce is what makes Momo taste amazing. Momo Achaar (similar to sauce) is prepared by creating a puree of tomatoes and a wide variety of aromatic spices. The recipe of achaar varies from one momo spot to another – thats why Nepali people are always on the lookout for the next best momo spot.

Normal Price: Price ranges from NPR 150 to NPR 200

Best Place: Momo Hut in Thamel or Shandar Momo, Baneshowr or literally any momo shop with hot steamy momos.

Samosa is a fried or baked pastry with a savory filling. Samosa’s shape varies from one region to another. It can come in varied shapes – triangular, cone, or half-moon shapes. Samosas in Nepal are mostly triangular.

The samosa originated in the Middle East and Central Asia and later spread to Africa, Southeast Asia, and South Asia. It is golden-brown in color and best served hot with ketchup or pickle.

One of the most desired and loved fast food is the chicken chilly, which is easy to prepare and less time consuming. It is an appetizer item included in almost every restaurant in Kathmandu.

It is an Indo-Chinese dish of chicken of Hakka Chinese heritage. The main ingredients are chicken, ginger and garlic paste, lemon juice, onion, and hot chili.

Lassi is a popular traditional drink originated from Punjab in India. It is a blend of yogurt, water, spices, and sometimes fruit. Namkeen Lassi is similar to ‘doogh,’ while sweet and mango lassis are like milkshakes.

Lassi comes in all kinds of flavors. Some are sweet, some have mint, and some have fruit. Apart from these varieties, lassi is prepared in different flavors to entice the taste bud.

Chicken Biryani is a mixed dish of rice with chicken and cooked slowly in big pots to preserve the flavors of the spices. It is made with rice, meat, eggs.

The main ingredients to make chicken Biryani are vegetables, rice, meat, spices, yogurt, garlic, egg, mint, and other mixture according to the taste of persons. It is originated from India and mostly found in the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia and Southern Africa.

Tandoori chicken is a famous delicacy enjoyed by people in Nepal, India, and all over the world. Its special because of the way it is cooked. It is cooked in a cylindrical clay oven (tandoor) and stovetop after marinating with the spices and yogurt.

This dish was created by Kundan Lal Gurjal and originated in the Indian sub-continent. The price of this dish differs according to the restaurant in Nepal.

Normal Price: NPR 500 to NPR 700 per serving

Chicken Sizzler is a well-known dish in Nepal, especially served at fast-food restaurants in Kathmandu.

The sizzler is served with a rich smoky essence attributed to the iron plate, which keeps the chicken hot for long. It contains grilled vegetables and a serving of stir fried noodles to go with it.

Sekuwa is meat roasted in a wood fire in the traditional Nepali style.

Cooking Sekuwa involves marinating raw meat with herbs and spices and skewing the meat and cooking it slowly on wood fire. It can be made of any meat like pork, chicken, goat, or a mixture. It is trendy in Dharan and Kathmandu. Dharan and Tarahara are also known as the Sekuwa capitals of Nepal.

Tea or masala tea is something that a Nepali person needs to have at least 2 – 3 times a day. Once in the morning and once in the afternoon – and few more times throughout the day depending on the weather or the type of conversation.

Tea is usually made by boiling aromatic tea leaves in hot water and then adding ingredients such as sugar and milk powder. However, the tea from the local street vendors are made in a different way and much more richer in texture. The vendor usually boils milk first, then adds some water and then boils it together with the tea leaves and sugar.

There are many variation of tea – and the best conversations in Nepal is usually accompanied by a cup of warm tea.

Nepali Chicken Chowmein is another local favorite delicacy. Almost every restaurant serves this dish. It is similar to fried wok noodles.

It is cooked with stir fried veggies such as cabbage, carrot, long beans, onions etc.

When Nepali people had their fill of Momo, Dal Bhat or Noodle Soup – then they turn to chowmein.

So there you have it. If you’ve conquered all the food listed above – then you have truly indeed traveled Nepal. If not – there’s always another time to head back and finish off the task.

Sushi presents a harmonious blend of fresh fish and expertly seasoned rice, for a delightful symphony of delicate flavors. 

Experience the clean flavours of Sashimi – raw fish that is sliced very thinly and served uncooked. It is usually served with daikon radish, pickled ginger and soy sauce.

Another favourite is miso soup, this traditional dish crafted with soybean paste, seaweed, tofu, and green onions brings together comforting and flavorful combinations that capture the essence of Japan’s culinary heritage.

The Pizza Margherita is a true Italian classic, showcasing a thin crust topped with tomato sauce, fresh mozzarella cheese, and aromatic basil leaves – a perfect harmony of flavors. Indulge in the simplicity and elegance of Cacio e Pepe, a Roman pasta dish that combines al dente spaghetti with a luscious sauce made from pecorino cheese and black pepper. And when it comes to ravioli, savor the delights of these stuffed pasta pockets, filled with a medley of cheeses, meats, or vegetables, and complemented by a delectable sauce.

Dive into the rich and aromatic flavors of Chicken Tikka Masala, where tender pieces of grilled chicken are smothered in a luscious tomato-based sauce bursting with spices and fragrant herbs. 

Indulge in the creamy and mildly spicy Butter Chicken, where succulent chicken pieces are enveloped in a velvety tomato sauce that is both comforting and satisfying.

Momos for Nepali people isn’t just a food item rather an emotion, a memory, and a tradition. But did you know of the different varieties of Momo that can delight your palate? If you want to learn more about the types of Momos found in Nepal, then keep on keep on exploring. 

Although Momo is served in different South Asian countries surrounding Nepal like Bhutan and India, its origin is still in debate. However, according to Nepalese history, Momo is a cuisine of Tibetan people. 

Whatever may the debate be about its origin, this typical dish has been modified according to the preference of people.  

In Nepal, Momo is the most loved snack of the day because of its taste and affordable price too. 

Here is the list of different types of Momos that are usually found in Nepal: 

1. Steamed Momo
It is the most basic Momo that is found in every restaurant in Nepal. In fact, steamed Momo is made occasionally in every household across the country. Steamed Momo can also be of various kinds depending upon the filling inside it. 

The major ones are Buff Momo, chicken Momo, and Vegetarian Momo. Non-veg Momo consists of minced meat mixed with herbs and spices wrapped inside a thin layer of dough made up of wheat.

Whereas the Veg ones consist of finely chopped seasonal vegetables. Steamed Momo is often served with finely ground tomato and sesame sauce. 

2. Kothey Momo
Kothey Momo is one of the popular types of Momos that are found in Nepal. It is usually wrapped in an elongated shape and filling can also vary widely. In fact, it is a pan-fried Momo which is initially half steamed and then half fried on a pan. 

The filling in this Momo can be vegetables, chicken, buff, or pork according to the preference of people. It is served with a tangy tomato sauce and spicy hilly sauce.

3. Chilly Momo
Chilly Momo is usually suited for the palate of those who love chicken chilly. It is commonly known as C Momo where C is a short form for Chilly. This Momo is the best option for people who hot and spicy food.

 It also has stirred fried chilies, onion, and tomato soaked in sauce to accentuate the flavor of the fried Momo. Alike other varieties, the chilly Momo has options for vegetarian and non-vegetarian fillings. 

4. Open Momo
Open Momo is a new variety that is recently popular in the restaurant menu. 

It is similar to the steamed momo, but the only difference is that this Momo isn’t entirely covered with the dough. 

A plate of food

Description automatically generated with low confidence
Like as the name suggests, open Momo has open holes on the top which can be used to put on the sauce and eat. Different restaurants and food hubs in the major city Kathmandu of Nepal serve open momos. It was in trend when it was first introduced to food lovers.

Open momo is also available with a variety of fillings that can range from vegetarian to non-vegetarian options.

5. Chocolate Momo
The idea of using white and dark chocolates in the filling of Momo is an innovative concept. Chocolate momo has a unique flower-like shape with a flowy chocolate-filled inside.

This trendy and stylish momo can be eaten as a dessert. However, the chocolate momos can be a little pricier than the rest for the expensive chocolate filling that it has inside.

6. Sadheko Momo
Sadheko Momo is a spicy, tangy, and flavorful Momo suited for the palate of the people who love spice. The steamed Momo is mixed with herbs, tomato, sliced onions, garlic, and spices like salt, pepper, oil, and a hint of lemon.

The sadheko momo is basically like a spiced of salad with only a variation of the momos as its base.

A plate of food

Description automatically generated with medium confidence
You may find sadheko momo in both vegetarian and nonvegetarian option.

7. Soup Momo/Jhol Momo
It wouldn’t be a lie to say soup momo or jhol momo is one of the most loved types of Momos in Nepal, usually in winter seasons. Although the name jhol and soup is considered similar in Nepal, the variation in momo is slightly different.

In jhol momo, the steamed momos are served with tangy flowy sauce made with sesame seeds and tomato mixed with other spices.

Whereas in soup momo, the steamed momo is served with a vegetable or meat soup based on preference. This mom is available in both vegetarian as well as non-vegetarian options.

 8. Tandoori Momo
The tandoori Momo is best suited for the food lovers who like that smoky flavor in their food. As the name suggests, the tandoori momo is prepared by tossing them in a “tandoor”, which is a clay oven.

A picture containing food, dish, kabob, colorful

Description automatically generated
Here, the soft momos are first fired in a pan and then tossed in tandoori marinade made with different spices and herbs.

 Each momo is then individually skewered and then gilled in a clay oven. Tandoori momo is served with tomato dips and mint sauce. 

9. Green Momo
Green momo is a new trend in Nepali restaurants. The term refers to the green covering of the momo which is usually filled with green vegetables.

In this momo, even the covering is made green by using spinach while blending the flour. Then the filling is made with vegetables and steamed. Green momo is also served with tangy tomato sauce and chili sauce.

10. Buckwheat Momo
People of Nepal use buckwheat very widely in their cuisine. They use it to make bread, chapattis and other dishes. Similarly, the trend of using buckwheat flour for making momo is also a new trend. 

It is usually preferred by the health conscious who love the taste of Momo. Buckwheat momos are highly rich in dietary fibbers and protein. 

It is also available in various choices of filling which may be meat or vegetables.

11. Cheese Momo
Cheese momos are named so for the filling that is used inside the Momo. The soft wheat dough wraps soft and fresh cheese and is steamed for few minutes.

After cooking, the cheese filling becomes flowy and gooey inside. It is served with two different types of sauces, a regular one with tomato ad another one with chilly.

Latte, americano, affogato…it’s crazy all that you can do with a few small beans. Whether you’re a coffee newbie or you consider yourself a coffee connoisseur, there are so many types of coffee drinks to discover. Here are some of the most popular types ordered by coffee lovers nationwide.

Black
Black coffee is as simple as it gets with ground coffee beans steeped in hot water, served warm. And if you want to sound fancy, you can call black coffee by its proper name: cafe noir. Since it isn’t doctored up with milk or sugar, the quality of coffee is especially important. Treat yourself to a coffee subscription box to find your favorite style.

Latte
As the most popular coffee drink out there, the latte is comprised of a shot of espresso and steamed milk with just a touch of foam. It can be ordered plain or with a flavor shot of anything from vanilla to pumpkin spice. (Here’s how to make a copycat Starbucks pumpkin spice latte.)

Cappuccino
Cappuccino is a latte made with more foam than steamed milk, often with a sprinkle of cocoa powder or cinnamon on top. Sometimes you can find variations that use cream instead of milk or ones that throw in flavor shot, as well.

Psst! Did you know mushroom coffee is a thing?

Americano
With a similar flavor to black coffee, the americano consists of an espresso shot diluted in hot water. Pro tip: if you’re making your own, pour the espresso first, then add the hot water.

Espresso
An espresso shot can be served solo or used as the foundation of most coffee drinks, like lattes and macchiatos. If you’re an at-home barista, this Breville Bambino and espresso accessories will turn your house into your own coffee shop. Figure out how an espresso is different from coffee.

Always on the go? This portable espresso maker lets you brew your coffee without needing a power source, so you can take it with you wherever you need it!

Doppio
A double shot of espresso, the doppio is perfect for putting extra pep in your step.

Cortado
Like yin and yang, a cortado is the perfect balance of espresso and warm steamed milk. The milk is used to cut back on the espresso’s acidity.

Red Eye
Named after those pesky midnight flights, a red eye can cure any tiresome morning. A full cup of hot coffee with an espresso shot mixed in, this will definitely get your heart racing.

Galão
Originating in Portugal, this hot coffee drink is closely related to the latte and cappuccino. Only difference is it contains about twice as much foamed milk, making it a lighter drink compared to the other two.

Lungo
A lungo is a long-pull espresso. The longer the pull, the more caffeine there is and the more ounces you can enjoy.

Macchiato
The macchiato is another espresso-based drink that has a small amount of foam on top. It’s the happy medium between a cappuccino and a doppio.

Mocha
For all you chocolate lovers out there, you’ll fall in love with a mocha (or maybe you already have). The mocha is a chocolate espresso drink with steamed milk and foam.

Ristretto
Ristretto is an espresso shot. It uses less hot water which creates a sweeter flavor compared to the bitter taste of a traditional shot of espresso or a doppio.

Flat White
This Aussie-born drink is basically a cappuccino without the foam or chocolate sprinkle. It’s an espresso drink with steamed milk.

Affogato
The affogato is an excuse to enjoy a scoop of ice cream any time of day (and any time of year in my opinion). Served with a scoop of ice cream and a shot of espresso, or two. The affogato is extra delicious served over a brownie, as a Brownie Affogato Sundae. If you like this, you must try Eiskaffee or ice cream coffee.

Café au Lait
Café au lait is perfect for the coffee minimalist who wants a bit more flavor. Just add a splash of warm milk to your coffee and you’re all set!

Irish
Irish coffee consists of black coffee, whiskey and sugar, topped with whipped cream. Here’s an Irish coffee recipe that will warm you right up.

Chilly Momo , 500
Chicken Chilly,470
Chowmin ,220
Katti Roll ,280
Coffee ,180
Mocha Coffee,400
Cold Coffee, 250
Ice Tea, 150
Lemon Ice Tea, 200
Green Tea, 100
Black Tea, 100
Pizza, 500
Burger, 300
Sandwich, 200
Pasta, 300
Noodles, 250
Fried Rice, 200
Biryani, 400
momo, 190

WHAT IS TEA?
Most tea is a beverage made by pouring hot water over cured leaves from the Camellia sinensis plant. The beverage has a long international history that first started in China. Originally, tea was used for medicinal purposes but eventually began to gain popularity as a recreational beverage.

HOW MANY TYPES OF TEA ARE THERE?
Since tea is enjoyed all across the globe, there are thousands of varieties to choose from. However, each variety falls under one of seven categories: black, green, yellow, white, oolong, pu-erh and herbal tea.

WHAT IS THE MOST COMMON TEA?
The most commonly used tea can vary depending on where you are in the world; however, black tea is typically the most popular type of tea across the globe. Black tea is often considered a pantry staple thanks to its deep flavor.

The pizza was invented in Naples in Italy in the 18th century. In Naples, the two oldest pizza varieties in the world still exist today. They are called Pizza Marinara and Margherita. According to the original Neapolitan recipe, only very few ingredients are used as a topping. The Marinara is the purist form of pizza. It is vegan and consists only of dough, San Marzano tomato sauce, garlic and olive oil. The vegetarian Margherita is additionally topped with mozzarella, but garlic as a topping is omitted. Both are also the original and the oldest varieties of pizza. In Naples is usually Mozzarella di bufala Campana instead of cow’s milk Mozzarella used.
There are several typical Italian pizza varieties that have emerged over time. Among them there are also the two official variants “Marinara” and “Margherita” of Neapolitan pizza. Here you can find the full list of all Italian kinds of pizza. If we have forgotten some variety, let us know in the comments.

n America, many different variants of the pizza have emerged. Some are quite similar to the Neapolitan types of pizza, but use much more cheese, for example the New York Style pizza. Other variants, however, are hardly based on their Italian ancestors. So there is the Chicago pizza, which is more reminiscent of a cake. It is also called deep-dish pizza and the toppings are layered in reverse as it is normal for a pizza. The most popular variation in the USA is the New York Style Pizza. It’s also called New York Slice. The New York Slice is the most similar to the original Neapolitan Margherita of all American kinds of pizza. In the US, Pizza Hut and Domino’s are the largest pizza delivery services and restaurant operators. Here you can find the full list of all American kinds of pizza. If we have forgotten some variety, let us know in the comments.
